CHAPTER 5
A paw clipping against her ear woke Dovepaw; keeping her eyes closed, she batted irritably at it. “Get off, Ivypaw! I need to sleep.” Nearly a moon
had passed since the apprentice ceremony, and the day before, their mentors had given them their first assessment, on the far side of the territory.
Dovepaw couldn’t remember ever being so tired. She’d never realized how nerve-racking it was to have invisible eyes watching her every move!
The paw cuffed her again, lightly, but with a hint of claws.
Dovepaw’s eyes flew open. “Ivypaw, if you don’t stop, I’ll—”
She broke off, staring. Standing over her was a cat she had never seen before: a she-cat with matted gray fur and amber eyes. Her jaws
were parted in the beginnings of a snarl, revealing two rows of snaggly teeth.
Dovepaw sprang up into a crouch, ready to tackle this strange cat who had managed to sneak into ThunderClan’s camp. “Who are you?
What do you want?” she growled, forcing her voice to stay steady.
“You,” the strange cat replied.
Struggling not to panic, Dovepaw gazed around the apprentices’ den. Moonlight filtering through the ferns that covered the entrance showed
her Ivypaw and the rest of her denmates curled up and sound asleep.
“Ivypaw!” Dovepaw gave her sister a hard shove. “Wake up! Help!”
Ivypaw didn’t move. Dovepaw looked up at the intruder, fear giving way to anger. “What have you done to her?”
“Nothing,” the she-cat replied, annoyance sparking in her amber eyes. “Now do as you’re told and follow me.”
Dovepaw wanted to ask why she should do anything the she-cat told her, but something compelled her to rise to her paws and scramble out
of the apprentices’ den. The clearing lay silent in a wash of moonlight, the shadows lying black against the silver walls. Toadstep, on guard at the
entrance to the thorn tunnel, was as still as a cat made of stone, and didn’t twitch a whisker as the mysterious she-cat led Dovepaw out into the
forest.
This is weird, Dovepaw thought. What’s happening to me? Even the forest didn’t look familiar; the sparse, shriveled undergrowth was full
and lush, and the grass underneath her paws felt cool and fresh.
“Where are we going?” she called, stumbling over a fallen branch that lay in the shadow of a bramble thicket. “I shouldn’t be sneaking out at
night like this. I’ll get into trouble….”
“Stop complaining,” the gray she-cat snapped. “You’ll find out soon enough.”
She led Dovepaw through the trees; gradually the undergrowth thinned out and more moonlight broke through. A fresh breeze began to
blow, bringing with it the scent of water. Dovepaw paused for a heartbeat to let it ruffle her fur, rejoicing in its coolness after so many days of
unrelenting heat.
“Come on.” The she-cat had halted beneath a tree a few fox-lengths ahead. “Come and look at this.”
Dovepaw bounded over to her side and stared in astonishment. The trees gave way to a strip of rough grass; beyond it water stretched out
almost as far as she could see, its ridged surface silvered by the moonlight. Gentle lapping filled her ears, steady as a queen licking a kit in the
nursery.
“This—this is the lake!” she stammered. “But it’s full! I’ve never seen so much water. Am I dreaming?”
“At last!” the she-cat commented sarcastically. “Are they filling the apprentices’ heads with thistledown these days? Of course you’re
dreaming.”
For the first time Dovepaw noticed the faint shimmer of starlight around the she-cat’s paws. “Are you from StarClan?” she whispered.
“I am,” the she-cat replied. “And once I was your Clanmate.”
“Then can’t you do something to help ThunderClan?” Dovepaw asked; fear and excitement made her voice quiver. “We’re having such a
hard time.”
“Hard times come to every Clan in every season,” the old gray cat replied. “The warrior code doesn’t offer the promise of an easy life. There
will be much debate and fighting—”
“Fighting?” Dovepaw interrupted, horrified, then slapped her tail across her mouth. “Sorry,” she mumbled.
“Blood is spilled in every generation,” the she-cat went on. Her amber gaze softened, and Dovepaw became aware of an intense kindliness
behind the rough exterior. “Yet there is always hope, just as the sun always rises.”
Her figure began to fade; Dovepaw could see the silver waters of the lake through her gray fur.
“Don’t go!” she begged.
The gray she-cat faded even more, until she was barely a wisp of smoke, and then entirely gone. As the last traces of her faded, Dovepaw
thought that she heard her voice again, whispering gently into her ear.
After the sharp-eyed jay and the roaring lion, peace will come on dove’s gentle wing.
Dovepaw woke with a start, her heart pounding, and sprang to her paws in one swift movement. I’m here in my den! So it was a dream….
Dawn light was filtering through the ferns at the entrance, and she could hear cats calling to one another in the clearing as they prepared for the new
day.
Beside her, Ivypaw twitched an ear and blinked open her eyes. “What’s the matter?” she muttered, her voice blurred with sleep. “Why are
you jumping around like that?”
Bumblepaw’s meow came from just behind Dovepaw, edged with annoyance. “Do you realize you just kicked moss all over me?”
“Sorry!” Dovepaw gasped. She had been sleeping in the apprentices’ den for almost a moon, but she still wasn’t used to how crowded it
was in there.
Already the dream was breaking up into scraps, fluttering away like leaves in leaf-fall as she tried to recapture them. There was an old gray
cat…a StarClan warrior. And the lake was full of water again. She realized that her legs were heavy with tiredness and her paws felt as sore as if
she really had walked to the lake and back in the middle of the night. That’s mouse-brained! It was just a dream.
But there had been something important about the dream. The StarClan warrior had given her a message. She dug her claws deep into her
mossy bedding, trying to recall the words, but they were gone. She let out a faint snort, half-amused and half-irritated. Who do you think you are? A
medicine cat? Why would a StarClan warrior come to give a message to you?
Stretching her jaws in a huge yawn, she pushed the dream from her mind and wriggled out through the ferns into the clearing. The sky was
growing brighter as the sun rose; the early patrols had left, and for a few heartbeats Dovepaw tracked Brackenfur and Sorreltail, who were stalking
prey near the stream that marked the border with ShadowClan. Pricking her ears, she heard Sorreltail leap on a squirrel as it tried to escape up a
tree, and Brackenfur padding over to touch his nose to her ear. “Great catch,” he murmured.
Better not listen anymore, Dovepaw thought, shutting out Sorreltail’s loving purr and listening instead to a couple of starlings having a noisy
quarrel in the branches of the dead tree. Letting her senses range farther over the territory, she picked up a yowl of pain from the dawn patrol on the
WindClan border, and then Berrynose’s voice: “I trod on a thistle!”
Dovepaw let out a little mrrow of amusement as she pictured the cream-colored warrior hopping indignantly on three paws while he tried to
pull out the prickles with his teeth. If she knew Berrynose, he’d blame the thistle.
“Great StarClan!” Dustpelt sounded angry and frustrated. “Will you sit still and let some cat help you? Rosepetal, sort him out, please, or
we’ll be here all day.”
“Just another day in ThunderClan,” Dovepaw whispered to herself.
And what about your dream? A voice seemed to speak in her mind.
“What about it?” Dovepaw muttered, firmly pushing the memories away again.
Slipping back into the den, she gave Ivypaw a sharp prod in the side. “Wake up, lazybones! Let’s find Cinderheart and Lionblaze and see if
they’ll take us hunting.”
Pride tingled through Dovepaw from ears to tail-tip as she carried her prey—a mouse and a blackbird—over to the fresh-kill pile and
dropped it in front of the warriors who were gathered close by.
“Well done,” Graystripe meowed, glancing up from the vole he was sharing with his mate, Millie. “At that rate, you’ll be one of the best
hunters in the Clan.”
“And she’s been an apprentice for less than a moon,” Lionblaze added, padding up to deposit his own prey on the pile. “She seems to know
what the prey is going to do even before the prey does.”
Whitewing, who was sharing tongues with Birchfall nearby, let out a purr of approval. “Good. I’m glad to hear you’re working hard.”
Dovepaw started to feel embarrassed. “I’m not that good,” she protested as she dropped her catch. She didn’t like being praised too much
in front of Ivypaw, who had managed to kill only a single shrew. “I’ve just got a great mentor.”
Then she went hot all over in case any cat thought she was criticizing Cinderheart. The gray she-cat didn’t seem to have noticed anything
wrong as she and Ivypaw set their own prey down, though Ivypaw cast an envious glance at her sister.
“Don’t be upset,” Dovepaw whispered. “It was just bad luck that you missed that squirrel.”
Ivypaw gave an angry shrug. “Bad luck doesn’t fill bellies.”
“You can each take a piece of prey,” Cinderheart meowed to the two apprentices. “You’ve worked hard this morning.”
“Thanks!” Dovepaw chose a vole from the pile, and after hesitating Ivypaw took her own shrew. Dovepaw could sense that however hungry
she was, her sister didn’t want to take more than she’d managed to contribute.
Dovepaw’s belly was yowling too, but as she crouched down to eat she forced herself not to gulp the vole down in a couple of ravenous
bites. The sun had risen over the tops of the trees, its rays beating down mercilessly, and there would be no more hunting until it set.
“I don’t know how much longer this drought can go on,” Millie sighed, finishing her share of the vole and swiping her tongue over her
whiskers. “How many more days without rain?”
“Only StarClan knows,” Graystripe responded, touching his tail to his mate’s shoulder in a comforting gesture.
“Then StarClan should do something about it!” Spiderleg looked up from where he sat on the other side of the fresh-kill pile with Hazeltail
and Mousewhisker. “Do they expect us to survive without water?”
“There’s hardly any left in the lake,” Hazeltail added sorrowfully. “And the stream has dried up completely between us and ShadowClan.”
“So where has all the water gone?” Mousewhisker asked with an irritable flick of his ears.
Dovepaw paused, puzzled, before taking another bite of her vole. “Don’t you know why the stream has dried up?” she asked. “Isn’t it
because of the brown animals who are blocking it?”
Spiderleg stared at her. “What brown animals?”
Dovepaw swallowed her mouthful. “The ones who are dragging tree trunks and branches into the stream.”
Glancing around, she realized that every cat beside the fresh-kill pile was staring at her. The vole she had just eaten suddenly weighed
heavily in her belly. Why are they looking so confused?
The silence seemed to stretch on for a season. Eventually Lionblaze spoke in a quiet voice. “Dovepaw, what exactly are you meowing
about?”
“The—the big brown animals,” she stammered. “They’re making a barrier in the stream, like our thorn barrier across the camp entrance. It’s
stopping the water from flowing. There are Twolegs watching them.”
“Twolegs!” Mousewhisker gave a snort of amusement. “Are they sprouting wings and flying as well?”
“Don’t be silly!” Dovepaw snapped. “They’re watching the animals and pointing…something, some Twoleg stuff at them. Maybe the animals
are blocking the river because the Twolegs told them to.”
“And maybe hedgehogs fly,” Spiderleg mewed with a sigh. “Lionblaze, you really ought to tell your apprentice not to make this stuff up. It’s
not funny, not when we’re all suffering.”
“That’s right,” Whitewing added. The approval in her eyes had changed to annoyance and embarrassment. “Dovepaw, what’s come over
you? This is a nice game to play with your sister, but it’s not the sort of thing you should talk about in front of all your Clanmates.”
Dovepaw sprang to her paws, the remains of her vole forgotten in her surge of anger. “It’s not a game! And I’m not making it up! You have to
know I’m not.”
“I don’t know anything of the sort,” Spiderleg retorted. “Twolegs and big brown animals? It sounds like a tale for kits.”
“Can’t you hear them?” Dovepaw asked. All the other cats were looking at her uneasily, and she found it hard to meet their gaze.
“Don’t be too hard on her.” Graystripe flicked his tail at Spiderleg. “We all played games when we were apprentices.”
“Maybe she’s confused,” Millie added kindly. “It could be the heat. Did you have a dream?” she asked Dovepaw.
“I didn’t dream it, and it’s not a game!” Dovepaw’s anger was giving way to distress, her forepaws working in the earth of the camp floor.
Why are they all pretending they don’t know about the stream?
“Come on.” Hazeltail got up and stretched. “Let’s find a shady place to sleep. Maybe we can all dream about big brown animals.” She
padded off toward the edge of the clearing, followed by Spiderleg and Mousewhisker. Birchfall skirted the fresh-kill pile and halted in front of
Dovepaw. His eyes were serious.
“If you’re making things up for fun, then stop it and say you’re sorry,” he meowed. “If you’re feeling ill, then go ask Jayfeather for some herbs.
But stop bothering warriors who have better things to do than listen to nursery tales.”
“It’s not a nursery tale!” Dovepaw wanted to wail like a lost kit. Even my own father is joining in!
Birchfall exchanged a glance with Lionblaze, then padded away with Whitewing. Graystripe and Millie headed for the warriors’ den.
Cinderheart rose to her paws. “Get some rest now, Ivypaw. When it’s cooler, I’ll take you for some battle training.”
“Thanks,” Ivypaw mewed, watching her mentor as she followed the other warriors. She gave Dovepaw a hard shove. “Stop showing off.”
Dovepaw stared at her, incredulous. “But, Ivypaw, you—”
“You’re only doing it to get attention,” Ivypaw hissed. Before Dovepaw could respond, she bounded away and vanished into the apprentices’
den.
Dovepaw stayed crouched beside the fresh-kill pile, her head down, feeling utterly crushed. Every cat in the Clan had treated her like a
piece of dirt, just because she knew about the brown animals. Why are they pretending they don’t know? At least Lionblaze must have heard them;
he was beside her when she sensed them, far upstream on the border with ShadowClan. Maybe it was some big secret that apprentices weren’t
supposed to know about? He shouldn’t have taken me to that empty stream, then!
After a few moments, she felt the light touch of a nose against her ear, and looked up to see her mentor gazing down at her. His amber eyes
were unreadable.
“Follow me,” he meowed.
